proudly brought to you by bro Blake for
reliable business connectivity
yes I'm out and about with Ward's on
apud actually and I'm on the Honda Cross
runner my first opportunity to actually
ride the cross runner because well a
bike was released in South Africa last
year and Honda South Africa didn't
invite me to the launch I think they
were quite scared of what I might
actually do with this motorcycle me
abuse a bike
never
yes and I'm out on the VFR 1200 X
crushed or as they're calling it um you
would have remembered that
Elaine rode that bike 2 months ago so on
the launch and we are doing a little bit
of an on a road test or a shoot art just
getting a little bit more of an
understanding of this VFR V
four-cylinder concept that Honda has had
for so long and has really increased in
the depth of range with this this v4
layout well it's an 800 cc at the heart
of it is the old VFR 800 with the VTEC
type of motor so when you get on the
pipe it sounds glorious it's not this
war app that comes out of the
carburetors when I say carburetors of
course I mean fuel injection it's about
turning the 30 kilograms 800 CC so it's
not the fastest thing around but hey you
know what it's quite surprising how fast
this little bike actually is I think
I've got a new love in my life and it
could actually be this vfi 800 so I'm
gonna join inform because we're gonna
ride around on these two Hollanders and
have a bit of fun this is what we love
about motorcycling simply getting out
there for a ride
and for the sheer enjoyment of a role
for the feeling of being at one with
nature and of course to eject just a
little bit of adrenaline into the veins
as I mentioned in my primo Honda South
African launch the VFR 800 X cross
runner just a year ago we thought it'd
be a good idea to match it up against
this newest and biggest sibling in VFR
12 and X cross tourer light-years apart
in many aspects but a sharing of design
philosophy in terms of the power plant
across one is to all intents and
purposes 100 VFR 800 dressed up in denim
jeans and a bomber jacket it is the
working man's version of a refined
machine the best part today is born
what are you working the bulk of the big
old 1200 little I tell it it's just so
nimble and so I good or what it does a
great they go back and hear the fan
kicking on now because up and down up
and down from still running it alone
just under 100 degrees which is quite
amazing because the fan kicks in at
exactly 100 so that little boy continued
to have some fun with it
this is sort of like that the bus Bruce
Springsteen would be seen riding his
stage presence of denim jacket and
hobnail boots personified this wonder I
can almost hear is rough and really
voice screaming born to be wild in my
ears as I ride it the cross runner
doesn't offer any fancy electronic
innovations such as traction control or
electronically adjustable suspension you
don't even get the Handy hydraulic
preload adjuster from the donor bike
that comes from it's out with a C
spanner in time for some skilled
knuckles to add some more preload on the
rear well screw on a little bit of
rebound damping or manual labor stuff I
like it the long heralded VFR 8 n region
is an absolute gym across runnerguy as a
heavier flywheel adds a little bit more
oomph and character to what already was
one of the most charismatic power plants
ever to grace a Honda chassis 800 in the
1200 both v4 s no coincidence that their
MotoGP bikes have a v4 engine as well
with the VFR 12 and if base new cross
tourer
big grid has transformed the extremely
powerful 1237 CC v 4 from a sports
touring flagship internet venture styled
machine bring an upright position with
long travel suspension and low-speed
manners of adventure bikes to the fore
know he is one gone he's left me behind
back on the tour they are riding
together across to a does look fairly
Park in the adventure touring sense with
a snap like beacon combining cockpit
height contrasting with a fairly low 850
millimeter C tight positioning the rider
well into the machine rather than
perched on top a stacked headlights
arrangement helps channel air into the
radiator ducts I must say this bike is
controllable and runs very cool
LED indicators make their first
appearance on a large capacity 100 while
hearing dogs an appreciable standard
fitment the windscreen is adjustable to
help cater Ferrara's of different
heights when they really put a lot of
thought into the cross Tora
well unfortunately that's where the fun
on the cross runner actually ends
because it doesn't really want to go in
these dirt roads as much as I'd like it
to it's not intended for that purpose so
warns off there and he'll enjoy the dirt
rustic roster which is what that bike is
designed to do and don't forget he can
get to places that we can't on normal
vehicles like that and that is what the
advantage of a danger bikes are get to
Arden away places have some fun roulette
box and of course enjoy adding a little
bit in the dirt as well